# **Create React Icon Package**

Create your own customizable SVG-based React icon package with **`create-react-icon-package`**. This package allows you to easily generate a custom SVG-based React icon package tailored to your needs, streamlining the process of creating, organizing, and distributing your own icon set for use in your React applications.

## **Table of Contents**

1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Installation](#installation)
3. [Usage](#usage)
4. [Customizing Your Icon Set](#customizing-your-icon-set)
5. [Semantic Versioning and Publishing with GitHub Actions](#semantic-versioning-and-publishing-with-github-actions)
6. [Setting up NPM_TOKEN and GITHUB_TOKEN](#setting-up-npm_token-and-github_token)
7. [Using Semantic Release for Automatic Versioning and Publishing](#using-semantic-release-for-automatic-versioning-and-publishing)
8. [Contributing](#contributing)

## **Prerequisites**

Before using this package, ensure you have:

- A basic understanding of React
- Familiarity with npm and SVG icons
- Node.js and npm installed on your system

## **Installation**

To use `create-react-icon-package` as a template for your own React icon package, clone this GitHub repository to your local machine:

```
git clone https://github.com/halilatilla/create-react-icon-package.git my-icon-package
```
This command will create a new folder called my-icon-package with the necessary files and configurations.

## **Usage**

After cloning the repository, follow these steps to set up and customize your React icon package:


Navigate to the newly created folder:

```
cd my-icon-package
```

Install the dependencies:

```
npm install
```


Now you can start customizing your React icon package.

## **Customizing Your Icon Set**

Inside the **`my-icon-package`** folder, you'll find a folder named **`icons`**. Place your SVG icons within this folder, then run the following command to build your React icon components:

```
npm run build
```

This command will generate React components for each SVG file within the **`icons`** folder and compile them into the **`dist`** directory.

## **Semantic Versioning and Publishing with GitHub Actions**

The generated React icon package is configured to use Semantic Release and GitHub Actions for automatic versioning and publishing to npm. To set this up, follow these steps:

1. Push your icon package to a new GitHub repository.
2. Create an npm account and obtain an npm access token.
3. Add the **`NPM_TOKEN`** and **`GITHUB_TOKEN`** as secrets to your GitHub repository.

## **Setting up NPM_TOKEN and GITHUB_TOKEN**

1. Log in to your npm account and navigate to the **[access tokens](https://www.npmjs.com/settings/%3Cyour-username%3E/tokens)** page.
2. Create a new token with "Read and Publish" permissions.
3. In your GitHub repository, navigate to the "Settings" tab and then to "Secrets".
4. Add the **`NPM_TOKEN`** secret using the token you generated from npm.
5. The **`GITHUB_TOKEN`** is automatically generated by GitHub, and you don't need to set it up manually.

## **Using Semantic Release for Automatic Versioning and Publishing**

With GitHub Actions, the **`GITHUB_TOKEN`** and **`NPM_TOKEN`** environment variables are set up to automatically version and publish your project to npm. As a result, each push to the "main" branch will initiate the process of versioning and publishing your package to npm.

## **Contributing**

If you would like to contribute to the **`create-react-icon-package`** project, feel free to submit issues and pull requests on the **[GitHub repository](https://github.com/halilatilla/create-react-icon-package)**.

## **License**

MIT License. See the **[LICENSE](https://chat.openai.com/LICENSE)** file for more information.
